Add guides/fullnode (#476)
centrifuge/documentation: docs/build/guides/how-to-run-a-full-node.md

---
id: how-to-run-a-centrifuge-node
order: 2
title: How to run a Centrifuge node
contributors: <Jeroen:jeroen@k-f.co> , <Guillermo:guillermo@k-f.co>
--- 

> # Running a Centrifuge fullnode
> 

Reviewer: It's duplicate in the UI with the page title now
```suggestion
```

## Hardware requirements

> - Hardware requirements
>     - minimum: 2+ cores CPU, 4GB+ RAM, 200GB+ free storage space
>     - recommended: 4+ CPU cores, 16GB RAM, 1TB SSD or faster storage

Reviewer 2: Nit: Headline is already _Hardware Requirements_

```suggestion
- Minimum: 2+ cores CPU, 4GB+ RAM, 200GB+ free storage space
- Recommended: 4+ CPU cores, 16GB RAM, 1TB SSD or faster storage
```

> Note: synching and Runtime Upgrades might put extra load on the node, it is recommended to burst the resources until the node is fully synched and have an
> process manager restart the process if it reaches memory limits and hangs or crashes

Reviewer 2: Nit: Language
```suggestion
Note: Synching and Runtime Upgrades might put extra load on the node. It is recommended to burst the resources until the node is fully synched and have a
process manager restart the process if it either reaches memory limits and hangs or crashes
```

### 1.1 Full node
CLI documentation: https://docs.substrate.io/reference/command-line-tools/node-template/
```bash
--port=30333
--rpc-port=9933
--rpc-external
--rpc-cors=all
--chain=centrifuge
--parachain-id=2031
--base-path=/data
--log=main,info,xcm=trace,xcm-executor=trace
--database=rocksdb
--execution=wasm
--wasm-execution=compiled
--bootnodes=/ip4/35.198.171.148/tcp/30333/ws/p2p/12D3KooWDXDwSdqi8wB1Vjjs5SVpAfk6neadvNTPAik5mQXqV7jF
--bootnodes=/ip4/34.159.117.205/tcp/30333/ws/p2p/12D3KooWMspZo4aMEXWBH4UXm3gfiVkeu1AE68Y2JDdVzU723QPc
--bootnodes=/dns4/node-7010781199623471104-0.p2p.onfinality.io/tcp/23564/ws/p2p/12D3KooWSN6VXWPvo1hoT5rb5hei5B7YdTWeUyDcc42oTPwLGF2p
--name=YOUR_NODE_NAME

--
--execution=wasm
--wasm-execution=compiled
--chain=polkadot
--sync=fast
```
- The bootnodes, parachain-id and chain options will change for each network.
- Use a descriptive NODE_NAME
- Decide on the [log levels](https://docs.substrate.io/deploy/deployment-options/) depending on your setup

### 1.2 Archive node

Everything same as above but adding `--prune=archive` before the `--` on the CLI arguments

### 1.3 Arguments formatting
The specific format will depend on how you deploy your node:

> Docker/Kuberentes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker/Kubernetes
```

```bash 
- "--port=30333"
- "--rpc-port=9933"
...
- "--chain=polkadot"
- "--sync=fast"    
```

Systemd
```bash
ExecStart=/var/lib/centrifuge-data/centrifuge-chain \
    --port=30333 \
    --rpc-port=9933 \
    ...
    -- \
    ...
    --sync=fast
```

### 1.4 Network values

> #### 1.4.1 Mainnet (Centrifuge Polkadot parachain)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.4.1 Mainnet (Centrifuge Chain)
```

Bootnodes:
```bash 
--bootnodes=/ip4/35.198.171.148/tcp/30333/ws/p2p/12D3KooWDXDwSdqi8wB1Vjjs5SVpAfk6neadvNTPAik5mQXqV7jF
--bootnodes=/ip4/34.159.117.205/tcp/30333/ws/p2p/12D3KooWMspZo4aMEXWBH4UXm3gfiVkeu1AE68Y2JDdVzU723QPc
--bootnodes=/dns4/node-7010781199623471104-0.p2p.onfinality.io/tcp/23564/ws/p2p/12D3KooWSN6VXWPvo1hoT5rb5hei5B7YdTWeUyDcc42oTPwLGF2p
```
Chain args:
```bash
--chain=centrifuge
--parachain-id=2031
--
--chain=polkadot
```

> #### 1.4.2 Testnet (Centrifuge DEMO)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.4.2 Testnet (Centrifuge Demo)
```

Bootnodes:
```bash
- --bootnodes=/ip4/35.246.168.210/tcp/30333/p2p/12D3KooWCtdW3HWLuxDLD2fuTZfTspCJDHWxnonKCEgT5JfGsoYQ
- --bootnodes=/ip4/34.89.182.4/tcp/30333/p2p/12D3KooWETyS1VZTS4fS7dBZpXbPKMP129dy4KpFSWoErBWJ5i5d
- --bootnodes=/ip4/35.198.144.90/tcp/30333/p2p/12D3KooWMJPzvEp5Jhea8eKsUDufBbAzGrn265GcaCmcnp3koPk4
```
Chain args:
```bash
--chain=/resources/demo-spec-raw.json
--parachain-id=2031
--
--chain=/resources/westend-alphanet-raw-specs.json
```
`demo-spec-raw.json`and `westend-alphanet-raw-specs.json` can be found either in the path above 
for the docker container or in the `node/res/` folder [in the codebase](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/tree/main/node/res) 

## 2. Recommended deployments

### 2.1 Docker (docker-compose)

You can use the container published on the [Centrifuge Docker Hub repo](https://hub.docker.com/r/centrifugeio/centrifuge-chain)
or be fully trustless by cloning the [Centrifuge Chain repository](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/)

> and using the [Dockerfile](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/blob/main/Dockerfile) (2-4h build time on an average machine),
> if building the image yourself make sure you have checkout the latest tag for the most recent release:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and using the [Dockerfile](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/blob/main/Dockerfile) (2-4h build time on an average machine).
If building the image yourself, make sure to have check out the latest tag for the most recent release:
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain.git
git checkout vX.Y.Z
docker buildx build -f docker/centrifuge-chain/Dockerfile . -t YOUR_TAG

```

#### Create docker compose file

Create a `docker-compose.yml` file with the contents below, adjusting the following:
- Change the `ports` based on your network setup.
- Replace `/mnt/my_volume/data` with the volume and/or data folder you want to use.
- Optional: To run it as an archive node, add `"--pruning=archive"` before `---name`

```Dockerfile
version: '3'
services:
centrifuge:
    container_name: centrifuge-chain
    image: "centrifugeio/centrifuge-chain:[INSERT_RELEASE_HERE]"
    platform: "linux/amd64"
    restart: on-failure
    ports:
    - "30333:30333"
    - "9944:9933"
    volumes:
    # Mount your biggest drive
    - /mnt/my_volume/data:/data
    command:
    - "--port=30333"
    ...
    - "--"
    ...
    - "--chain=polkadot"
    - "--sync=fast"
```

> **Refer to the CLI arguments on section 1.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Refer to the CLI arguments on [section 1.*](/#1-cli-arguments)*
```

docker cp centrifuge-cp:/usr/local/bin/centrifuge-chain /var/lib/centrifuge-data
```

#### Configure systemd
##### 1. Create systemd service file
We are now ready to start the node, but to ensure it is running in the background and auto-restarts in case of a server failure, we will set up a service file using systemd.
Change the `ports` based on your network setup.

**Notes**
- It is important to leave the `--bootnodes $ADDR` in one line as otherwise the arguments are not parsed correctly,
    making it impossible for the chain to find peers as no bootnodes will be present.

- To run it as an archive node, add `--pruning=archive \\` before `--name` below.

```bash
sudo tee <<EOF >/dev/null /etc/systemd/system/centrifuge.service
[Unit]
Description="Centrifuge systemd service"
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=10
User=centrifuge_service
SyslogIdentifier=centrifuge
SyslogFacility=local7
KillSignal=SIGHUP
ExecStart=/var/lib/centrifuge-data/centrifuge-chain \
    --port=30333 \
    --rpc-port=9933 \
    ...
    -- \
    ...
    --sync=fast

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

> **Refer to the CLI arguments on section 1.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Refer to the CLI arguments on [section 1.](/#1-cli-arguments)**
```

##### 2. Start the systemd service
Actually enable the previously generated service and start it.

```bash
sudo systemctl enable centrifuge.service
sudo systemctl start centrifuge.service
```

> If everything was set-up correctly, your node should now be starting the process of synchronization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything was set-up correctly, your node should now be start the process of synchronization.
```

This will take several hours, depending on your hardware. To check the status of the running service or to follow the logs, use:

```bash
sudo systemctl status centrifuge.service
sudo journalctl -u centrifuge.service -f
```

### 3. Test and health monitoring

> Once your node is fully synced, you can run a cURL request to see the status of your node, replace localhost for your URL if your node is externally available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once your node is fully synced, you can run a cURL request to see the status of your node. If your node is externally available, replace `localhost` for your URL.
```

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "eth_syncing", "params":[]}' \
localhost:9933
```

> Expected output if node is synced is `{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":false,"id":1}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Expected output if node is synced is `{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":false,"id":1}`.
```

### 3.1 Use ws-health-exporter

> You can monitor your node to make sure it is ready to serve RPC calls using parity's ws-health-exporter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can monitor your node to make sure it is ready to serve RPC calls using parity's `ws-health-exporter`.
```

> More info [on the parity's Docker Hub page](https://hub.docker.com/r/paritytech/ws-health-exporter)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More info [on the parity's Docker Hub page](https://hub.docker.com/r/paritytech/ws-health-exporter).
```

### 3.2 Monitoring

> As it happens with any blockchain, the storage will run out eventually, it's recommended to monitor your storage or use any kind of auto-scaling storage to account for this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it happens with any blockchain, the storage will run out eventually. It is recommended to monitor your storage or use any kind of auto-scaling storage to account for this.
```

> It is also recommended to setup a reverse proxy or an API gateway to monitor the API calls and see the response rate and the response codes to look for errors over time. How to do this is out of the scope of this documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also recommended to setup a reverse proxy or an API gateway to monitor the API calls and see the response rate and the response codes to look for errors over time. How to do this is out of the scope of this documentation.
```

### Troubleshooting
#### Error logs during syncing
During fast syncing it is expected to see the following error messages on the `[Relaychain]` side.

```bash
ERROR tokio-runtime-worker sc_service::client::client: [Relaychain] Unable to pin block for finality notification. hash: 0x866f…387c, Error: UnknownBlock: State already discarded [...]
WARN tokio-runtime-worker parachain::runtime-api: [Relaychain] cannot query the runtime API version: Api called for an unknown Block:  State already discarded [...]
```

> as long as the following logs are seen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As long as the following logs are seen
```

```bash
INFO tokio-runtime-worker substrate: [Relaychain] ⚙️  Syncing, target=#18279012 (9 peers), best: #27674 (0x28a4…6fe6), finalized #27648 (0x406d…b89e), ⬇ 1.1MiB/s ⬆ 34.6kiB/s
INFO tokio-runtime-worker substrate: [Parachain] ⚙️  Syncing 469.4 bps, target=#4306117 (15 peers), best: #33634 (0x79d2…0a45), finalized #0 (0xb3db…9d82), ⬇ 1.3MiB/s ⬆ 2.0kiB/s
```

> everything is working correctly. Once the chain is fully synced the errors logs will go away.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
everything is working correctly. Once the chain is fully synced, the errors are expected to vanish.
```

#### Stalled Syncing

> If the chain stops syncing, mostly due to the unavailable blocks then please restart your node. The reason is in most cases that the p2p-view of your node is incorrect at the moment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the chain stops syncing, mostly due to the unavailable blocks, then please restart your node. The reason is in most cases that the p2p-view of your node is incorrect at the moment.
```

Resulting in your node dropping the peers and being unable to further sync. A restart helps in theses cases.

Example logs will look like the following:
```bash
WARN tokio-runtime-worker sync: [Parachain] 💔 Error importing block 0x88591cb0cb4f66474b189a34abab560e335dc508cb8e7926343d6cf8db6840b7: consensus error: Import failed: Database
```

#### Changed bootnode or peer identities

> It is common  that bootnode change their p2p-identity leading to the following logs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is common that bootnode change their p2p-identity leading to the following logs:
```
